# Risk-averse Reinforcement Learning for Algorithmic Trading
Yun Shen*,Ruihong Huangf, Chang Yan+,and Klaus Obermayer* *School of Electrical Engineering and Computer Science,Technical University Berlin,Email: yun,oby@ni.tu-berlin.de LOBSTERTeam,Humboldt UniversityBerlin,Email:huang@lobsterdata.com Humboldt University Berlin, Email: sunnykirk119@ gmail.com
Abstract-Weproposea generalframework ofrisk-averse This paper contributes to the literature on algorithmic tradreinforcement learning for algorithmic trading.Our approach is ing. First, our risk-averse RL generalizes the risk-neutral RL testedin an experimentbasedon1.5years of millisecond time- (see e.g.,[7],[9]) by allowing traders to explicitly control the scale limit order data from NASDAQ,which contain the data risk according to their risk sensitivities.Second,we introduce around the 2010 flash crash.The results show that our algorithm the RS-MDP modelinto algorithmic trading.Its basic idea outperforms the risk-neutral reinforcement learning algorithm by on risk control can be valuable for traders to improve the 1)keeping the trading cost at a substantially low level at the spot robustness of their trading algorithms under extreme market when the fash crash happened,and 2) significantly reducing the risk over the whole test period. conditions. Our study is also related to the previous works [8], [10] and [11], where explicit structural models are proposed to describe market dynamics.Based on the model, the risk in trade Algorithmic trading contributes a major part of trading execution is controlled by minimizing quadratic utility or value volumes to modern electronic equity markets [1]. Though details of trading algorithms in practice remain unrevealed, at risk. Our approach is distinguished from them by applying solid evidence (see,e.g.[2],[3], [4]) found around the 2010 an RL-type algorithm to solve the risk-averse optimization problem. Since RL is a data-driven technique, it requires no Flash Crashlindicates that most of them failed to adapt explicit structural model on the market dynamics.Hence, our their trading strategies to the extreme market event.This failure harms not only performance of trading algorithms,but approach is more practical in high-frequency markets where modeling the market dynamics is a huge challenge. also market's stability. Hence,there is an increasing interest toincorporate a robust risk controlinto trading strategies,
II.TRADING ON LIMIT ORDER MARKET especially into the algorithms used for algorithmic trading. In this paper, we propose a general framework of risk- Institutional traders generally acquire their long-term (e.g. averse trading algorithms based on the risk-sensitive Markov a day or longer) target positions by assigning small tasks in a short time-frame, typically in minutes. In most electronic limit decision processes (RS-MDP,[5],[6]) to solve a common high-frequency trade problem faced by an institutional trader: order markets, e.g., NASDAQ, traders compete for trading the optimal trade execution (see e.g.,[7], [8],[9] and refertrade direction (buy or sell), limit price and quantity. During ences therein), i.e., to liquid a huge inventory over a short time horizon. Specifically,we derive a risk-averse objective the continuous trading phase,a centralized computer system function within the framework of RS-MDP,which balances collects all incominglimit orders and executes them according to the following price-time procedure rule: the buy (resp.sell) the expected revenue and the associated risk by applying a nonlinear transformation.The corresponding optimization order with a higher (resp. lower) price is executed earlier and, problem is then solved by a data-driven technique called riskamong all orders with the same price, the first coming order is executed first. In the case where a buy (resp. sell) order with a averse reinforcement learning (RL). price higher (resp. lower) than the best price of all existing sell Byemploying a huge data set containing the high-fre- (resp.buy) orders, it becomes a so-called market(able) order quency order books (one and half years in millisecond time and is executed immediately. All unexecuted limit orders are scale） of Amazon.com Inc (AMZN) traded on NASDAQ, aggregated as a limit order book which is publicly visible to weshow that the risk-averse RL outperforms the standard all market participants. RL (which is risk-neutral) by a reduction of 10 to 15 basis To illustrate how trade is executed, suppose a trader plans points on the risk, at a price of 2 to 3 basis points on the average avenue, depending on the experimental cases.More to sell 100 shares of AMZN (Amazon.com Inc.). Fig. 1 shows a snapshot of AMZN's limit order book in NASDAQ. Here importantly,unlike the risk-neutral RL, which results in a huge are some feasible choices for her²: cost on the flash-crash spot, the risk-averse RL is able to keep its corresponding cost at a substantially low level. 1) submit an order at price $346.17 and get an immediate
## 1On May 6,2010,the prices ofmany U.S-based equity products expefull execution with the average price $346.212 (80 shares
equity indices in both the futures and securities markets,each already down
2For the sake of simplicity,we do not consider hidden liquidity in this over 4% from their prior-day close, suddenly plummeted a further 5-6% in a example. Nevertheless, the data of hidden liquidity is considered and used in matter of minutes before rebounding almost as quickly." [2] our trade simulation in Sec. IV.

horizon into several time points and individual decisions are Amazon.comInc.(AMzN)-NasdaqGS made at each time point according to updates (or states, which will be specified in the next section) of the order book, in order
OrderBook
Top of Book Ask Bid Price Size Price Size
Price
Finance). Bottom: a graphical representation of the order book with two price levels. The position and height of each bar represent the price and size of each order respectively. Bids (buy orders) are drawn in green, while asks (sell orders) are in red. The mid-quote price, i.e., the average of the highest bid and lowest ask, is marked by a triangle. 1) 4) label 4 admissible strategies for a seller (for details see Sec. II).
2) submit an order at price $346.38 and get a partial execution for 20 shares. The remaining 80 shares will wait in the order book untilincoming buyers take them. 3) submit an order at price $346.60. Since it is the first order at this price, it will be executed (possible partially) when a buyer bids a price higher than or equal to S346.60. 4) submit an order at price $346.82. It will be executed when
price,but only after the execution of the existing order with 100 shares at the same price.
We see that a strategy pursuing a better selling price is always associated with a longer (expected) time-to-execution. In practice, the trader typically has to liquid a position inside a strict time-horizon. The long time-to-execution could be very costly for her, since she probably has to trade at a substantially bad price at the end of the time-horizon, especially when the market price moves downward. To solve this problem, the trader can divide the whole time-
set of discretized variables representing the state of limit order book and the trade execution,
options (denoted by a),
probability moving from state s E S to s’∈ S after taking action a,
R(s,a):=r(s,a)+∈(s,a), where the determinant function r:S× A→R denotes the expected reward at each (s,a)∈ S×A.The stochastic function e represents a reward noise due to the uncertain future dynamics of the market. Let P(e|s,a) denote the distribution of the noise with the event space E.We assume that thezero-mean condition e(s,a)P(es,a)=0
holds for all (s,a) E S × A.
μs,a(s,c):= P(s|s,a)P(∈s,a). to achieve the long-term goal. In the previous example, she
lower (resp. higher) price when observing a downward (resp. upward) movement of the price. Since the market is usually unstable, the optimal strategy for the long-term goal in one time period, e.g., several days, might not work in another time period. A usual way to solve this problem is to define the long-term goal in the sense of average, i.e.,we seek a strategy that maximizes the long-term goal averaged over all time periods. But even so, the derived optimal strategymight still cause huge losses in some extreme market conditions,e.g., the 2010 flash crash, since the extreme market conditions might be far away from the average. In the high-frequency world, the averagely optimal strategy is usually obtained by reinforcement learning (RL，see e.g.,[9]). Since it does not require an explicit structural model for the underlying market dynamics, RL has been proven to be a very flexible and powerful tool for maximizing average rewards. In this paper, we are going to avoid high losses at extreme market events by adding risk controlinto RL algorithms.
We view the optimal trade execution as a sequential decision-making problem and model it by a Markov decision process (MDP, see e.g.[12])
It consists of
1) a state space S,where each state s E S consists of a
2) an action space A composed of all admissible trading
3)a transition kernel P(s'|s,a) specifying the transition
4) a random reward R with the form
There are two sources of uncertainty in our model: (i) the successive state s'(due to the stochastic dynamics of limit order book) and (ii) the immediate reward (due to noise t). They can be quantified by the following joint distribution

Let t = 1,..,T denote the tth time point in the discretized provided that we have alreadyknown the Q-value at (t+1)th trading time-horizon and πt:S→A be the corresponding time point at each state-action.It can be shown (see [6], [16]) thatif the utilityfunctionu satisfiessomeregularity conditions, decision rule. The optimal risk-neutral trading strategy is then the multistage policy π=[π1,π2,..,πT] that maximizes the following objective function (see e.g.[7]):
T max J(π, s):=E[ R(St, At)|S1 = s, π] t=1 =E=s[R(S1,A1) +Eg[R(S2, A2)+ (5)...+ Egz [R(ST,AT)]...,
where E[X]:=Es,π(s)[X] =s，cHs,π(s)(s’,e)X(s’,∈) denotesthe conditional expectation givena state s and a policy
T. To incorporate risk into the multistage decision-making procedure,we replace the risk-neutral expectation E by an evaluation function,U,which generalizes the idea of the utility-based shortfallproposedin the mathematical finance
Us,a(X)= sup{m ∈ R|Es,a[u(X -m)]≥0}.(7)
Here,u denotes a concave,continuous and strictly increasing utility function.It can be chosen freely according to how much risk the trader is willing to take.We can, therefore,control the risk-sensitivity of our trading strategies by properly adjusting its form. The risk-averse optimal trade strategy is then obtained by maximizing the following risk-averse objective [5]:
max J(π, s) := U=s[R(S1, A1) +U[R(S2, A2)+
## +UgT[R(ST,AT)]...],
where U is defined by U():=Us,π(s)(). In this paper, we assume that u takes the following form,
u(c）= c where 入 ∈ (O,1]. For 入 < 1, u is concave and the profits (i.e., > 0) are always less valued, while the losses (c < 0) keep equal.Its corresponding optimal trading strategy is therefore risk-averse [13].Furthermore,the smaller 入 is,the more punishment are applied to large profits, which leads to a more risk-averse trading strategy. If setting 入 =1, it corresponds to the linear function u(x)= implying the evaluation function Us,a()=Es,a(-). In this case, our model reduces to the riskneutral model. The optimization problem in Eq. (8) is to be solved by a reinforcement learning (RL)algorithm (see Algorithm 1). Suppose at tth time point, we repeat trying action a at state s a large amount of times and observe N samples of immediate rewards and successive states,{R,s}=1,....Then the Qvalue at (s,a), which evaluates the quality of this state-action pair, can be estimated by the following iterative procedure
Q(i+1)(s,a) =Q(s,a)+u(),
with =R;+maxQt+1(s,a)-Q(s,a)，(10) (s,a)converges to the optimalpolicy
initialize Qt(s,a)= 0 for all s ∈ S,α ∈ A; for each state s E S and a E A do for n =1 to N do execute action a at s to obtain sampled reward R and successive state s'; Update Qt(s,a)according to Eq.(10); endfor endfor
the market dynamics is not required,which is a big advantage since the market dynamics is usually difficult to quantify inhigh-frequencymarket.Furthermore,although the market dynamics is unknown, its associated risk can still be indirectly controlled by the utility function u in our algorithm.
the standard RLalgorithm[9]by applying a nonlinear utility function u on the temporal difference 8.Indeed, by setting 入=1 (i.e.u(x)=x),it recovers the standard RL algorithm. This generalization allows us to control the riskwithout any additional space or time complexity. To stress the fact that the standard RL algorithm is riskneutral, in the rest of this paper, we call it risk-neutral RL, while our algorithm is called risk-averse RL.
theory (EU,see e.g.[17]),where utility functions are applied toimmediate rewards rather than the temporal difference.In the EU theory, the objective is still linear to the distribution μs,a.Hence,it cannot measure the risk associated with μs,a efficiently. For more detailed discussion, readers may refer to [5].
which are provided by NASDAQ as a standard data feed for real-time trading, and then for each time point t = T,T -1,...,1, the policy
thatmaximizes the risk-averse objective function definedin Eq. (8), as N → 00.
Algorithm1Risk-aversereinforcement learning initialize Qr+1(s,a) = 0 for all s E S,a E A; for t =T to 1 do
end for
Remarks.
1) In Algorithm 1, the explicit form of μs,a describing
2)Algorithm 1 can also be viewed as a generalization of
3) Our approach differs from the classical expected utility
A.Data We perform our experiment on selling AMZN stocks in NASDAQ. The order book data are provided by LOBSTER3 [18] with two price levels, i.e., only the best two asks and bids (see Fig. 1 (bottom) for an example) are available at each time stamp.LOBSTER uses
1)historical NASDAQ TotalView streaming messages,
## 3For more information, see its website http://lobsterdata.com.

2)an algorithm, which continuously updates order books by order, walking through the lower prices on the bid side of the all order events, including order submissions, cancellaorder book until all remaining volumes are sold. Note that this tions and executions, as well as hidden order executions, execution is not a part of policy,but serves as a penalty for recorded with millisecond time stamps. the failure of fulfilling the trade target.
Therefore,our experimental environment effectively represents C.Performanceevaluation the real algorithmic trading environment inNASDAQ. Weevaluate performance of algorithms bycalculating In order to analyze our model's performance during and trading costs and their associated risk in the test period using after the flash crash on May 6,2010,we use the one year data the optimal strategies learned by algorithms. previous to the flash crash, i.e.,from May 1,2009 to April 30, 2010, to train the model and obtain the best strategy. This In particular, the trading cost of each time horizon H is strategy is then tested in the succeeding half-year period from defined asthe average execution price achieved bythe strategy May 1,2010 to October 31,2010, which contains the flash relative to the mid-quote (average of bid and ask) at the start crash. time point of H, i.e., _mid-quote at time 0—average execution price B.MDPformulation mid-quote at time 0 In our experiment,we analyze the performance of the risk-averse RL by comparing to the risk-neutral RL proposed Risk is evaluated by two criteria:1) the standard deviation byNevmyvakaet al.[9]who show that it substantially and 2) 95% quantile of costs over the whole test period. The outperforms the trading strategy,submit and leave,which is latter one is in spirit of the concept of value at risk (see e.g., commonly used in practice.For comparison,we specify the [20]), which is widely used in industry to measure risk. By structure of the underlying Markov decision process (MDP) the 95% quantile cost, we measure in fact the upside risk of defined in Eq. (1) by applying a setup similar to the one used extremely large losses (costs). in [9]. The unit of both costs and their associated risk,including Timeresolution.We discretize thetotal time horizon the standard deviation and 95% quantile, is simply the basis equally with different scales. Given the total time horizon H point (= 1/100 of a percent). and a time resolution T,we assume that limit orders will be submitted to the market at each time point t = n·H/T, D.Results n = 0,1,...,T—1, according to the trading policy determined Tuning 入.The free parameter 入 in Eq.(9) determines how by our algorithm. In this study, for covering the “flash crash” period, we set H = 10 minutes for all experimental cases. conservative (risk-averse) the derived optimal strategy is with regard to the uncertainty of rewards.How to choose its value States.We consider twovariables: the seller's inventory and is,therefore,of criticalimportance for the performance of the the bid-ask spread of the order book.4Let V denote the target risk-averse RL algorithm. To this end, we first conduct a series volume andIbe the number of inventory units,between which of experiments with 10 different modes of increasing 入from one strategy can distinguish.Then,if v shares are remained,the 0.1 to 1.Fig.2 depicts the corresponding costs and risk for state of inventory is i:=[u·I/V]. The spread is discretized the two case,1)V=20000,T = 5 and I =5,and 2)V = to three states: small,middle and big, according to the 33.3% 20000,T =10 and I=10.We observe that the average cost to 66.7% empirical quantiles of the spread in training data set. decreases while the standard deviation,95% quantile cost and Actions. We use relative prices as actions. Specifically, the cost at flash crash increase as 入 increases. The underlying action a corresponds to submitting a sell order at price ask-a reason is that the greater the value of 入 is,the closer is the shape of function in Eq.(9) to the linear function,and thus (unit: US cent) with all of the remaining shares².Hence,a ≤ 0 represents a strategy of submitting a limit order at orbehind the the less risk-averse is the algorithm. Indeed,with 入 = 1, the market,e.g.,strategy 4) in Sec. II, while a > 0 corresponding algorithm reduces to the risk-neutral one which results in a to strategiesundercutting ask.In thecase that aisgreater than slightlylower average of trading cost(approximately 2basis the spread, it is the strategy of submitting market(able) order, points)during the whole test period,but a significantlyhigher e.g., strategy 1) in Sec. II. The range of actions are determined risk (approximately 15 basis points,in terms of both standard deviation and 95%-quantile cost) than the risk-averse RL with based on gaps between second best asks and second best bids in historical data. 入 = 0.6. Furthermore, during the flash crash period, the riskaverse algorithm outperform the risk-neutral oneby100 points Rewards. The immediate reward of an action a is the cash for the case T = 5 or by 200 points for T = 10 (see the next inflow resulted from a (partial) execution of the limit order paragraph for more comparisons of performances during the placed at ask -a in the next H/T time interval. Moreover, flash crash). In Fig. 2, we can observe a switch point around we assume that selling V shares is mandatory.Any inventory 入 ∈ [0.6,0.7] indicating an optimal choice. We also identify remaining at time H must be cleaned up by using a market the same pattern over other experimental cases (the graph is available upon request), and thus set 入 = 0.6 in the following
4The authors alsodid experiments withan additional feature of order book, imbalance of depths and conclude that its effects on the performance of all analysis. RL algorithms are marginal. Performanceduringthefashcrash.Theflashcrash onMay
5Ourmodel canbe extent toinclude the order size as another dimension of the action space, given an estimate for the market impact of limit order (see 6,2010 provides a natural test case to examine the robustness e.g., [19]). However, this is out of the scope of this study. of RL trading algorithms under extreme market conditions.

standard deviation average trading cost
risk neutraf
入 95% qunatile cost
米riskneutral
米
入
corresponds to the risk-neutral RL algorithm.The curve with “+” is obtained with total inventory V = 20000,time resolution T = 5 and inventory resolution I = 5, while the curve with “*" is with the seting V = 20000, T = 10 and I = 10.
Within ten-minute period from 14:40 to 14:50, the price of
followed by a quick recovery, ca. 2.94%, resulting a total decline, ca.1.45%, over the period.
corresponding trading costs for the case V=10000, T=10 and I,resulting from the risk-neutral and risk-averse RL algorithms from 12:00 to 16:00. We see that the risk-averse RL performs more stably than the risk-neutral RL over the period. Especially, during 10-minute period around the flash crash, the riskaverse RL managed to keep its trade cost at 41 basis points, while the risk-neutral RL led to a huge cost higher than 300 basis points. It indicates that the risk-neutral RL does not adapt to the extreme market event. Besides the large jump of price, the flash crash is also characterized by a dramatically large width of bid-ask spread. In order to see whether including the spread as a state variable would remedy therisk-neutralRL's deflection,we compare the trading costs for all experimental cases under these two setups in Fig. 4. It shows that the risk-neutral RL's performance during the fash crash does not significantly change, despite of adding substantial information, due to its non-sensitivity to spread state. We shall discuss the underlying reason in detail in the following paragraphs. Overviewof theperformanceinthewholetestperiod.Fig. 5 shows the cost and risk of the risk-neutral and risk-averse RL algorithms for all experimental cases under two setups, i.e. without and with the spread as an additional state variable. Overall, we find that risk-averse RL significantly reduces the ** △ risk neutral
米
入 cost at flash crash
米
米risk neutral
米
入
risk by decreasing 10 to 15 basis points on the standard deviation and 95% quantile of the resulting trading cost, at the price of a slight increase of the average, ca. 2 to 3 basis points. It indicates that the proposed algorithm can not only avoid black swan events like the flash crash, but also reduce the overall risk in the whole test period at a price of a slight increase of average trading cost.
Furthermore,the results show that after introducing spreads as state variables, the trading risk resulting from the optimal policy of the risk-averse RL decreases remarkably,but hardly changes the risk of applying the risk-neutral RL. It is due to the fact that the optimal policy of the risk-neutral RL is based on the maximization of the expected reward (i.e., the expectation of shares executed in the next H/T time interval) among all admissible actions (i.e., decisions on the limit price of the order). Since the change of spread affects the expected rewards with different prices comparably, the risk-neutral RL will not adjust its strategy significantly according to the spread. This non-sensitivity of risk-neutral RL to spread explains why including the spread into simulation does not improve its performance during the flash crash.
Different from the risk-neutral RL，the risk-averse RL optimizes its policy by considering both reward and its uncertainty (i.e., the variance of the executed shares in the next time interval).The latter could change distinguishably among all admissible actions, when the spread changes. Therefore, the risk-averse RL tends to adjust its strategies substantially according to the spread state.

AMZN May 6, 2010
price
mid
risk neutral (RN) point) -risk averse (RA) s
(un
flash crash happened is highlighted by a black rectangular. Bottom: trading costs of the risk-neutral (labeled by “RN") RL and risk-averse (labeled by “RA") RL with 入 =.6.
We have proposed a risk-averse reinforcement learning (RL） algorithm for optimal trade execution based on the risk-senstive MPD model for sequential trading decision. Our method has been tested by using 1.5 year high-frequency limit order book data in NASDAQ, which covers 2010 flash crash. Comparing with the risk-neutral RL,the risk-averse RL 1) significantly reduces the trading cost on the spot of flash-crash, and 2) is associated with a remarkable lower risk in the whole test period at the price of a slight increase of average trading cost. We believe that incorporating risk control into trading algorithms with a nonlinear utility function would be a valuable guidelinefor the practitioners to improve the robustness of their existing algorithms at extreme market events.
Thanks to Wendelin Bohmer for useful discussions and suggestions and to both anonymous referees for helpful comments.
[1]Securities and Exchange Commission,“Concept release on equity market structure” Federal Register, vol. 75, no. 13, pp. 3594 3614, Junuary 2010. [2]U.S. Commodity Futures Trading Commission and Securities & Exchange Commission, “Findings regarding the market events of may 6,
2010Report of the Staffs of the CFTC and SEC to the Joint Advisory Committee on Emerging Regulatory Issues, 2010. Library, May 2011.
processes,SIAMJourmal on Control and Optimization,no.5,pp.3652
reinforcement learning,” To appear in Neural Computation, 2014. D. Bertsimas and A. W. Lo,“Optimal control of execution costs,” Journal of Financial Markets, vol. 1, no. 1, pp. 150, 1998.
tions,” Journal of Risk, vol. 3, pp. 540, 2001. Y. Nevmyvaka, Y. Feng, and M. Kearns, “Reinforcement learning for optimized trade execution”in Proceedings of the 23rd international conference on Machine learning.ACM,2006,pp.673680.
limit order books with general shape functions,” Quantitative Finance,
A. A. Obizhaeva and J. Wang, “Optimal trading strategy and supply/demand dynamics” Journal of Financial Markets, 2012. M.Puterman, Markov Decision Processes: Discrete Stochastic Dynamic Programming.John Wiley & Sons, Inc., 1994.
Studies in Mathematics. Walter de Gruyter & Co.,Berlin, extended edition, 2004.
namic consistency” Mathematical Finance, vol. 16, no. 2, pp. 419441,
portfolio choice,” Handbook of Numerical Analysis, vol. 15, pp. 2987, time
time
[3]A. J. Menkveld and B. Yueshen, “Anatomy of the flash crash,” Available
[4]A. Kirilenko, A. Kyle, M. Samadi, and T. Tuzun, “The flash crash:
[5] Y. Shen, W. Stannat, and K. Obermayer, *Risk-sensitive Markov control
[6]Y. Shen, M. Tobia, T. Sommer, and K. Obermayer, “Risk-sensitive
[8]R. Almgren and N. Chriss, “"Optimal execution of porfolio transac-
【[6]
## 1A. Alfonsi, A. Fruth, and A. Schied, “Optimal execution strategies in
[13]H. Follmer and A. Schied,Stochastic Finance, volume 27 of de Gruyter
[14] S. Weber, “Distribution-invariant risk measures, information, and dy-
A. Schied, H. Follmer, and S. Weber, “Robust preferences and robust

RN no spread RN spread RA no spread
“RA"), volumes (V = 10000, 20000), time resolutions (T = 5, 10) and volume resolutions (I = 5, 10) and whether spreads are included in the state space ("no spread",“spread").
0t
## SO
and volume resolutions (I = 5, 10) and whether spreads are included in the state space ("no spread", “spread"). ]RA spread
RN no spread RN spread RA no spread RA spread
RN no spread RN spread RA no spread RA spread
RN no spread RN spread RA no spread RA spread V20k T5 15

[16]J. Dunkel and S. Weber, “Stochastic root finding and efficient estimation of convex risk measures,” Operations research, vol. 58,no. 5, pp. 1505-
[17] C. Gollier, The Economics of Risk and Time. The MIT Press, 2004. [18]R. Huang and T. Polak, “LOBSTER: The limit order book reconstructor, School of Business and Economics, Humboldt Universitait zu Berlin, Tech. Rep., 2011, http://lobster.wiwi.hu-berlin.de/Lobster/ LobsterReport.pdf. [19]N. Hautsch and R. Huang, “The market impact of a limit order,"Journal of Economic Dynamics & Control, vol. 36, pp. 501522,2012. [20]P. Jorion,Value at risk: the new benchmark for managing financial risk. McGraw-Hill New York, 2007, vol. 3.
